------->CLASS------>
1. What is a class in Java? How is it different from a structure in C?
Answer:
A class in Java is a blueprint used to create objects. It encapsulates data (variables) and behavior (methods) in one unit.
In C, a struct can only contain data, not methods. A class supports full Object-Oriented Programming, while a struct in C is procedural.

 2. Why can't we use only methods and variables in main() instead of creating classes?
Answer:
Java is a pure object-oriented language where everything must belong to a class. 
Without using classes, you cannot achieve modularity, reusability, encapsulation, or abstraction.
Structuring code with classes makes it more maintainable and scalable.

3. Can we run a Java program without creating a class?
Answer:
No. 
Every Java program must contain a class. Even the main() method must be inside a class.
Java enforces class-based structure, unlike C/C++.

 4. Can a Java class have only methods and no variables? Is it valid?
Answer:
Yes, a class can have only methods and no variables.
It's valid and useful when the class acts as a utility or helper class (e.g., Math class in Java).

 5. What happens in memory when you write Car myCar = new Car();?
Answer:
JVM loads the Car class if not already loaded.
Memory is allocated in heap for a new object.
A reference to the object (myCar) is stored in stack
The default constructor initializes the object.

6. Is a class stored in stack or heap memory? Explain.
Answer:
The class definition (metadata) is stored in method area (part of JVM memory).
Objects created from a class go to the heap. 
References (like variables) are stored in the stack.

7. Can multiple objects of a class have different values for variables?
Answer:
Yes. Each object has its own copy of instance variables.
So two objects can store different values for the same variable declared in the class.


 8. How is a class different from an interface? When would you choose a class over an interface?
Answer:
A class can have both implemented methods and state (variables).
An interface is a contract with only abstract methods (before Java 8) and no instance variables.
Use a class when you need a complete implementation. Use an interface when you want to define a common behavior across unrelated classes.

9. Can we declare a class inside another class? What is it called? Why is it used?
Answer:
Yes, it's called a nested class.
It helps to logically group classes that are only used in one place, improve encapsulation, and hide the inner class from the outside world.


10. What are static classes? Can we create static classes in Java? Where are they used?
Answer:
In Java, only inner classes can be declared static.
A static nested class can be accessed without creating an instance of the outer class.
They’re used when the nested class doesn't need access to the instance members of the outer class.

11. Design Question – School App: How would you model students, teachers, and classes using Java classes?
Answer:
Create a Student class with fields: name, rollNumber, grade
Create a Teacher class with: name, subject, employeeI
Create a SchoolClass class with: className, teacher, List<Student> students
Each class will have methods like attendClass(), teach(), addStudent()
This models the school environment using OOP principles.

---------->OBJECT----->
✅ 1. What is an object in Java?
Answer:
An object is a real instance of a class that holds data and behavior defined in that class.
It is created using the new keyword and is used to access class members like variables and methods.


✅ 2. How is an object different from a class?
Answer:

Feature   	Class	                           Object
What?   	Blueprint or template	             Real-world entity created from class
Memory	  No memory until object made        Occupies memory
Usage    	Cannot perform actions	           Can call methods, store values

✅3. How do you create an object in Java?
Answer:
ClassName objectName = new ClassName();

✅ 4. Can you create multiple objects from the same class?
Answer:
Yes. Each object will have its own copy of instance variables, but share static members if any.
Example:
Car c1 = new Car();
Car c2 = new Car();

✅ 5.Where are objects stored in memory?
Answer:
Objects are stored in the Heap memory.
Their reference (like Car c = new Car();) is stored in the Stack memory.

✅ 6. Can you call methods without creating an object?
Answer:
Only static methods can be called without an object using the class name.
Example:
Math.sqrt(25); 

✅ 7. What happens in memory when you create an object?
Answer:
JVM loads the class if not loaded
Allocates memory on Heap
Initializes default values
Calls constructor to assign values
Returns reference to Stack

✅ 8. Is it possible to compare two objects directly in Java?
Answer:
Yes, but be careful:
== compares references (memory address)
.equals() compares content (only if overridden)

 ✅ 9. What is the default value of an object if it's a field in a class but not initialized?
Answer:
The default value is null for object references.
Example:
class Test {
    Car myCar; // myCar is null by default
}

✅ 10. Can one object access another object’s private variables?
Answer:
No, unless:
Access is done via public getters/setters
Or both objects are in the same class and access private variables directly

------>Constructor--->

)
🔹 1. What is a constructor in Java? How is it different from a method?
Expected Answer:
A constructor is a special method used to initialize an object when it is created.
Key differences:
Has no return type, not even void
Name must be same as class name
Called automatically when object is created
Cannot be static, abstract, or final


🔹2. Can constructors be overloaded in Java?
Yes.
You can create multiple constructors in a class as long as their parameter list differs.
class Car {
    Car() {}
    Car(String model) {}
    Car(String model, int year) {}
}

🔹 3. Can a constructor call another constructor? How?
Yes. Using this() for constructor chaining.
class Box {
    Box() {
        this(10); // calls parameterized constructor
    }
    Box(int length) {
        System.out.println(length);
    }
}

🔹 4. What is constructor chaining and why is it used?
Constructor chaining means one constructor calls another using this() to reuse initialization code and avoid repetition.

🔹 5. What is the role of super() in constructors?
super() is used to call the parent class constructor. It must be the first statement in the child constructor.

class A {
    A() {
        System.out.println("A");
    }
}
class B extends A {
    B() {
        super(); // calls A's constructor
        System.out.println("B");
    }
}


🔹6. What happens if you don't define a constructor in your class?
Java automatically provides a default constructor (no-arg) if no constructor is written. 
But if you write any constructor, Java won’t give you a default one.


🔹 7. Can a constructor be private? If yes, where is it used?
Yes. A private constructor is used in the Singleton pattern, where only one instance of a class should exist.

🔹 8. Can a constructor be inherited?
No. Constructors are not inherited, but the child class can call the parent constructor using super().

🔹 9. Can you have return in a constructor?
You can use return; (without value) to exit early, but you cannot return any value from a constructor — not even void.

🔹10. Can you write code after this() or super() in a constructor?
No. this() or super() must be the first statement in the constructor. If not, you'll get a compile-time error.


🔹 11. Can a constructor throw an exception?
Yes. A constructor can throw checked or unchecked exceptions:
class A {
    A() throws IOException {
        // some code
    }
}

🔹 12. Can you create an object without using a constructor?
Not really. Every object creation internally involves a constructor, even if you use tools like reflection or cloning — they all eventually invoke some form of construction.
